exercise if-else if-else statement
exercise objective create a program to
implement the use of if-else if-else
structure at the end we should observe
the following create a new project
called if-else if-else so click on file
new project select java java application
click on next the project name is IfElse
IfElse the project location is lesson04
and we click on finish so the project
has the desired structure create a new
class called if-else if-else test the
class name is IfElseIfElseTest and
the package name is test click on finish
modify the code the package name is test
the name of the class is IfElseIfElseTest
we create a main method, declare a
variable called x equals to 30 of type
int and we use the if statement to check
if the variable x is equal to 10 in
that case we will print x equals to 10
if not we execute the next statement in
this case the else if so we check again
if x is equal to 20 we print x equals to
20 and we can add as many
statements as we need of type else if in
this case we add another statement
x
equals to 30 and print x equals to 30 and to
finish we can use the else statement we
print x is not equal to 10 20 or 30 and
we close the else statement as we have
mentioned before we can omit the curly
braces if we have only one sentence
inside the if or else if or else
statement if we have more sentences
inside of any of these blocks of code we
need to use the curly braces we close
the main method and we close the class
we execute the project so right-click
on the class if-else if-else test run
file and the result in this case x
equals to 30 so with this exercise
we have put into practice the handling
of the if-else if-else statement